[Music]
10 or 20 minutes a day 10 or 20 minutes
a day that's what you're being told is
optimal does anyone really believe that
if we have two identical twin brothers
and one of them studies a language for
10 or 20 minutes a day and the other one
separately studies that language for 4
hours a day does anyone really believe
that the brother who's only putting in
10 or 20 minutes a day is gonna make
more progress in that language what's
really going on here why do we have
videos why do we have such a mountain of
seemingly expert advice that's devoted
to telling people what they want to hear
that's devoted to normally often with an
application for sale or a link to a
website that somehow gonna make money
out of this why do we have this mountain
of evidence premise on promising you
that language learning can be fun and
easy and painless when we all know that
it's the opposite of each of those
things that it requires tremendous
devotion self-discipline even
self-sacrifice and above all else a
commitment of time cannot be exaggerated
hundreds and thousands of hours of your
time
that you'll never get back and if you
have kids it's time you don't spend
playing with your kids if you have a job
it's time you don't spend doing your job
you may have to quit all your other
hobbies you may have to make serious
sacrifices in your life to learn a new
language and the seriousness of that
sacrifice is exactly what's being
trivialized here 10 to 20 minutes a day
you can't write out a paragraph as a
beginner in Chinese think about just how
time-consuming it would be to practice
writing a one paragraph once in Chinese
how little you could get done in 10 to
20 minutes a day what's being sold here
isn't advice its mythology so let's put
these two suggestions together and ask
if there's some kind of quantifiable
advantage that we've never noticed
before 10 to 20 minutes just before you
go to bed and this is advice being given
without any reference to your particular
circumstances you may be a parent who
has kids you have to take care of you
may be a person with an active sex life
who makes love to somebody of the
opposite sex or the same sex or a team
of 5 partners for all I care
you may have sex before you go to bed I
may be numerous reasons why just before
going to bed is the worst possible time
for you to sit at your desk and devote
your attention to studying a language
and there may be very obvious reasons
why waking up at 5:30 in the morning is
the best time I did have a period of my
life of intense study with Chinese were
waking up before I went to class I think
class started at 9:00 a.m. so waking up
at 5:30 a.m. was crucial to my reviewing
and drilling language before I went to
class I'd
another period of my life with Cambodian
Cambodian is not worth that rest - but
it doesn't take a whole lot of
imagination to see how this advice might
not pertain to your circumstances but
look guys this is 2018 in the whole
history of the world did the u.s. army
ever discover that when soldiers studied
a language for 10 to 20 minutes before
going to bed suddenly they just got
these fabulous results when you know
even during World War one when I was
studying French
I should have texts of a beautiful
little textbook printed during World War
one for soldiers in World War one they
were struggling to teach soldiers French
as rapidly as possible so they could
survive in the conditions of World War
one on that front of the battle do you
think the army just said hey you know
what guys 10 to 20 minutes before you go
to sleep that'll just devote covering
the Korean War the Vietnam War any War
World War two you name it most wars
involve people being suddenly thrown
into linguistically complex situations
amidst tremendous stress and turmoil and
there's pressure on people to hit the
books as hard as possible and for
organizations with big budgets
organizations with infinite budgets to
get organized to bring people up to a
level of language fluency as rapidly as
possible and yet none of them ever in
the past ever notice this trick that all
it takes is 10 to 20 minutes before you
go to bed oh maybe all these experts and
specialists they were making the mistake
of studying languages after lunch it's
just nonsense on so many levels but
people seek out this content they
consume it and I guess some of them try
to live by it
because it's basically giving you
excuses for your bad habits just watch
TV just hang out with friends just take
it easy
20 minutes is enough
the problem isn't just the premise of
the thing it's basically the
implications they draw out of it for
what it means in your life to learn a
new language the point I'm gonna raise
here might surprise some of you in
American culture and only in American
culture I hear people talking about
mentors and role models I have never
once in my life heard an Englishman or a
Scotsman or an Australian talk about the
importance of mentors and role models
but Americans do it all the time in your
field of study in your language is this
how your mentors and role models learn
this language maybe you've never even
thought about it that way before when I
was studying pally a language not that
many people study I was able to look at
the whole history of great men of highly
accomplished scholars and how they had
learned that language when I was
studying Chinese I mean obviously he's a
huge well-documented history of the
great scholars of the Chinese language
but I could even look at my own
professors you know I had white Western
professor and he learned this language
at a time when there were no computers
he's now retired and you know for him
the first fundamental step of the
language was memorizing what are called
the radicals and learning how to use a
paper dictionary and count brushstrokes
and identify radicals and analyze the
written characters into their components
and there's a discipline there that
you're never going to get at by using
this application on your smartphone or
sitting around with your friends and we
all know the reality is most people who
come
the internet looking for this advice are
not in a situation where they have five
or six supportive friends who sit down
and study these languages with them
you're on the Internet precisely because
you lack a network of great teachers
great colleagues and great fellow
students helping you learn these
languages sad fact but I think this is
worth questioning across the board no
matter which language you're learning
for me I have experience with Cree a Jib
way Cambodian so many languages when you
look at the history of the people who
really became highly accomplished in
this field what did they do and how and
I think the answers you're gonna find
are they made tremendous sacrifices they
live lives of single-minded
determination for a period of 10 years
sometimes they developed their acumen
and ability in the language through
tremendously hard work and you can find
out the precise conditions and methods
they used and they're not going to be
anything like the mythology that people
are now trading in on social media I
don't have a lot to say here this is
just standard wishful thinking but I've
had to caution Chinese parents about
this Chinese parents who were gonna
spend a fortune to try to send their
children to Canada to learn English in
immersion in Canada and of course once
in a while you talk to white Western
people who are gonna spend a fortune to
study language and emerge in another
country you really need to think
systematically and in a methodologically
robust way about who is gonna talk to
you about what and what are their
motivations going to be when you go to
the market to buy five kilograms of
potatoes
the person who works in that market and
weighs the potatoes they're motivated to
say about ten words to you whatever the
language you're studying doesn't matter
if you're in China Vietnam you're
learning Arabic whatever the example is
you cannot show up at the market to buy
a bag of potatoes and think that this
person has any motivation or investment
in talking to you in depth or correcting
your grammatical errors if you speak
comprehensible broken version of that
language they're just gonna communicate
to you how much the potato's cost
whether it's too much or too little
there's a just a very limited window of
communication and engagement there and
of course most people are shy most
people are not comfortable just going
out and bridging these gaps and the
shyness works on both ends there's a
language learner is the public at large
there's a terrible pattern you see again
and again with Chinese students who are
sent to Canada by their parents they
become isolated they spend all day
playing video games and the only people
they talk to are other Chinese people
here in Canada who don't speak English
with them who speak to them in Chinese
and guess what I've seen the same thing
with white people living in Laos
Cambodia Thailand Kunming China numerous
other cities have been - there are white
people white expatriates who spend all
of their time only socializing with
other white people they would rather
spend all of their time drinking beer
with other people who speak English or
even just other people who speak some
other European language that rather
speak to Germans that spend their time
with Chinese people and of course there
are reasons for that both complex and
simple if you're not paying someone to
be your language teacher who's not an
excellent language teacher they're not
going to be engaged to help you develop
your language ability it's a kind of
lazy wish-fulfillment fantasy that you
can go on vacation and improve your
language ability you can't don't get me
wrong you can
but then your vacation will not be a
vacation at all it will be hard work it
will be rigorous in many ways it will be
even more rigorous than enrolling in
university program if you're going to go
on vacation and really utilize that
vacation as an occasion to improve your
language ability in any given target
language what I'm trying to demonstrate
is the concept of comprehensible input
as its second language acquisition
scholar stephen krashen did in this
lecture of the first claim of his we'll
look at is that there is acquisition and
learning and crashing says improvement
and language ability is only dependent
on acquisition and not learning the
difference between acquisition and
learning is tricky but it's kind of like
the difference between getting a joke
and having someone explain the precise
reasons why the joke should be funny the
point is you have this massive pattern
recognition device is jammed into your
head and when you understand the meaning
of the message your brain will naturally
pick out vocabulary and deconstruct
grammar patterns based on the context
actually naturally pick out vocabulary
and deconstruct grammar patterns based
on the context in my earlier video I
made the comparison to fad ideas that
have become popular in weightlifting and
weight loss people who want to lose body
fat and gain muscle mass and here I'd
like to make a bit of a different
comparison to the martial arts to
self-defense very often you'll see on
YouTube very often you'll see on social
media someone trying to teach you a
trick a technique something so simple
and remarkable that suddenly makes it
easy to defend yourself against an
assailant and one of the questions I
have to ask is if there were any truth
to this why has this never come up in
the history of civilization before why
don't we have examples of the US Marine
Corps teaching people this method why
don't we have examples of the Russian
military or the Israeli military or some
military why is this something that
comes up I don't know in the context of
a kind of sport or recreation at the gym
the Sun that people are doing for fun
and in a silly not terribly serious
manner generally why is there such a
contrast between footage of the US
Marine Corps teaching people how to
defend their lives in deadly serious
situations and in the type of practice
the regimen the self-discipline the
drill of real education in self-defense
and the sort of peculiar classes for
self-defense that we see at gyms we see
at recreation centers we see at places
of exercise and entertainment around us
all over the world on some level I think
we know that it is the same problem that
we see here creeping into advice on
language education the fundamental
problem is that entertainment is
corrupting education when the US
military or the Israeli military teach
self-defense it's not fun it's not
entertaining it's also not safe or
painless it's quite dangerous and
painful for the people involved and they
drill they do the same motions
repetitively often while shouting out
the same instructions again and again
and again a hundred times perhaps and
there's a real parallel to language
learning there when language learning is
serious it's not fun it's not
entertaining there's no special trick
that suddenly makes all the hard work
analysis and study of grammar go away
there's no way if you just naturally
pick up this habit of mind and indeed it
involves drill it involves repetition
dozens or hundreds of times
Trulli actually pick out vocabulary and
deconstruct grammar patterns based on
this context there's a lot more going on
here than just an appeal to nature
fallacy if this were something natural
natural in human psychology natural in
the course of language education why
isn't it attested throughout the whole
history of human civilization why is it
that we have so many centuries of
records of how people in Europe learned
the Latin language we know how Latin was
taught and how Latin was learned when it
was a living language being taught to
people whose mother tongue was a
completely unrelated language within
Europe then the Roman Empire
we know how it was acquired as a
language as it transferred from being a
living language to a dead language more
scholarly language we have records going
over centuries and centuries and we can
contrast how this language was taught in
France Germany Romania Eastern Europe
Western Europe within Italy itself
nowhere and at no time is there any
evidence for the approach being outlined
here the approach being outlined here is
100% wishful thinking what what a great
concept that you could just naturally
naturally naturally pick up grammatical
concepts that you could naturally
develop acumen and analysis for
understanding the parts of the sentence
the you know semantic range of a word
how idioms work when something is and
isn't in humanik usage when when the
same word is a noun as opposed to a verb
in a given context and that the idea
this would be possible when you're
learning a language from a totally
different language family than when your
first language is English and you're
learning Chinese that this would be
possible
don't get me wrong tremendous leaps of
inference are possible if your first
language is Spanish and your second
language is Italian if your first
language is Portuguese don't get me
wrong there are some languages so
closely related that what's being said
here could be viable advice but if
you're learning Chinese Japanese any any
genuinely alien and challenging language
and your first line for his language is
English
this is astoundingly terrible advice and
if there were any truth to it we'd be
able to see evidence written throughout
the history of education throughout the
history of Western civilization it
simply would not have been necessary for
so many centuries for people to have
been taught the Latin language in the
way that they were because they would
have been able to naturally naturally
naturally learn that language through
the methods that have just been
described to you methods that are from
my perspective completely surreal if
we're going to examine language as
anything more profound than recognizing
the color red when you're prompted with
the color red and then using the
corresponding word one appendix I wanted
to add on at the end of this video is
that the question of how good or how
terrible a device may be is ultimately
going to be related to the personality
and particular circumstances of the
person you're giving advice to I was
going to begin my first video on this
topic the video that was uploaded just a
few hours ago today I was gonna begin it
by making the blanket statement that
100% of the advice of seen on learning
languages on YouTube is terrible and
then you know I had to challenge myself
does a hundred percent really mean a
hundred percent or does it mean 95% or
99% or there's some exceptions I can
throw in here but when I really did go
and check various sources
if I were going to make exceptions they
would be principals so broad and so
vague that I think it's insulting to the
intelligence of the viewer to call them
good advice
like you know write things down in a
notebook advice um this level like you
know well if you really had never
thought of that before yeah there was
another guy he was advising you to go
through and circle certain key words
like because and bigger than smaller
than more than less than the question
words like why and how I said to my
girlfriend unless I was I was just
reviewing these sources to see if I
should kind of make some concessions
here I said the only advice here that I
think is not terrible is so broad and so
vague and so basic that it would never
occur to me to say this to you out loud
now I do not think that my girlfriend is
some kind of like innate linguistic
genius but I just can't imagine having
to say to her out loud the word because
is especially important in this sense
well this is a there's a piece of
crucial vocabulary that you need to make
sure you know for for any conceivable
human language there gonna be you know
these kinds of these kinds of words that
obviously you can't you can't even get
through your first few months the
language though becoming familiar with
um no on the other hand it's true my
personality type and my approach to
language is so relentlessly analytical
that it didn't occur to me this is I got
one negative comment on the first video
it didn't occur to me that I would say
out loud to somebody that they should
take the time to review the fundamental
phonetic properties of the language to
make sure they're pronouncing things
correctly before engaging in
memorization of the basic vocabulary
that's in the the appendix to their
textbook that's in the index at the back
of the textbook it wouldn't occur to me
to say to somebody out loud you need to
understand
the phonetics and the orthography so how
to pronounce the sounds and how the
sounds are written the relationship
between how how something sounds notes
written down that is so basic and so
general but I had someone leaving an
angry comment saying that this is
terrible advice that was giving because
I just suggest that you memorize some
vocabulary they were thinking without
even knowing how it sounds or how it's
written so yeah from my perspective how
do you even use the index at the back of
the book if you can't read or pronounce
isolated words in the language right got
it so yeah guys those are the only
caveats I can I can offer here I do
think that we're in a situation with
language learning on the Internet
where there are a few powerful biases
that are shaping what people are saying
and what people are doing in the same
way that advertising weight loss tea
weight loss diet tea weight loss drinks
had a powerful effect warping what
happened on Instagram in the same way
that certain fads of exercise and diet
for years were warping what was going on
in vegan activism in the same way that
really terrible advice really terrible
methods of practice I'm gonna have you
bring about different kinds of fads in
fitness and martial arts and
self-defense in the same way I feel that
we're going through a period of time
where language learning ultimately
because of a contest for money and
popularity and social media stardom and
as I said in the first video because
most people find it gratifying to tell
the audience what they know the audience
wants to hear tell the audience they can
just go on vacation watch a movie watch
a movie with subtitles spend time
hanging out with their friends that they
can remove the element of pain and
hard-working commitment and tell the
audience what they want to hear these
are I think unexamined biases that have
to a ridiculous extent work what's going
on in language learning the internet and
the tragedy of it is that YouTube is an
amazingly powerful tool for language
learning communication study exchange
encouragement and improvement in your
language ability I remember the first
time I saw YouTube really literally the
first time I saw this website the first
time I saw clips of video being shared
this way I thought wow that's gonna
change the world for the Deaf forever
sign language think about how difficult
it was to teach someone sign language
over the internet using a text interface
I thought wow there's so many languages
like sign language there's so many
things gonna take off I thought wow
Cambodian people you know in the
Cambodian Diaspora Cambodian people
living in France and in Montreal and in
Cambodia itself for the first time
there's going to be this kind of you
know communication uhm so many languages
that have struggled to get on the
internet in written form because back at
that time was very very difficult for
many years to actually type in Cambodian
and get Unicode to get a font get
computers to even display Cambodian text
properly I lived through that with
Cambodian with Burmese with quite a
number of languages I worked on I saw
them struggling to get the text form but
then by contrast video communication
like this was racing ahead by leaps and
bounds and of course in so many ways
it's more emotionally powerful it has
more educational potential so on and so
forth and when I buy these video game
consoles like the Nintendo 2ds Nintendo
3ds portable video game consoles and
buying video games for my daughter I
always look at this technology and see
this amazing educational potential it
has especially for language learning and
I see that potential completely utterly
going to waste so in the next 10 years
what do you think we're gonna see guys
could be the same whole thing could be
that this potential continues to get
flushed down the drain but I'm hoping
that these videos have provoked or
inspired some of you guys to think about
these questions from some new angles I
remember when I was working on Korean a
Jib way Algonquian languages at First
Nations University in Canada so those
are languages that may go extinct
the next 100 years but they do really
have a chance to survive thrive to take
on more speakers
I was always proposing again and again
by email and face to face with
professors can't we work on a card game
like a deck of cards based game
something like the pokemon card game or
something so that children can practice
this language while playing a game can't
we develop a video game where we could
develop a card game
linked to a video game portable video
game for something like Nintendo we've
got to find ways to get this language
into daily use for the next generation
and there's so much potential in this
kind of technology
even in ultimately the technology that
the deck of cards and nobody's doing it
I'd also ask questions like why are why
aren't we having no smoking signs of
this language so on and so forth uh um
and Yale professors a lot of them
responded very positively they were
really inspired to have someone on the
campus who cared someone who was looking
forward that way but whether you are
studying a language that's endangered
like Cree or a language that may have 1
billion speakers like Chinese the
challenge we're facing in the 21st
century is struggling with the the very
strange reality of mutual isolation and
mutual communication that the internet
now brings us and I hope I hope we can
do better than the sources I've just
been criticizing in this video
[Music]